Onsite fans have always been a spotlight to talk about when it comes to sports. There are a lot of special cases that can do more harm than support by sabotaging and rioting in games and that makes a harmful effect to the stadium and people out there. Moreover, some important matches like finals of some kind of an international championship or Olympic Games there must be a highly coasted security procedures to secure such matches as there are governmental and important businessmen that attend these matches. However, researchers have found that the effect of support of the onsite fans is much more than harmful due to many examples, many players are positively affect with the cheers and banners they see and hear from the fans, the amount of passion form the fans that leads them to do more effort just for the win and lastly the support they do for the clubs and countries is the huge amount of revenues that come from the tickets they buy that aids the existence of such kind of sport. The result of this article is that the effect of support that comes from the onsite fans is much more than harm, but we need to make more awareness campaigns about this topic.













“If you love the game, nobody can take that from you.” That is what sports is all about, the main idea for sports is not only for players and clubs, but it is mainly focused to fans and supporters as in Egypt there is a common expression which is “football is for fans”. What if the onsite fans are banned from watching some matches for a typical sport? How it will affect the personality of the supporters and sports addictive’s? According to Merkel (2012), the effect of onsite fans can’t be neglected as it supports the team more than ever, imagine envision a prominent match in any game without the group. It's difficult to envision a World Cup Final or a Wimbledon Final without the air that accompanies it. The environment that originates from the group adds that additional exceptional thing to an occasion and gives the occasion more significance if there are individuals there to watch it. Despite there are some exceptional cases for some fans violence and sabotage, some important matches the presences of onsite fans does more pressure to players than support, some occasions need high security procedures, onsite fans support players for the main goal is to win, sports fans are a huge critical element to the games’ score, clubs get many revenues from such amount of supporters and the most extremely effect that show the support of onsite fans is more good than harm is the passion for such sport.
Fans and supporters violence and sabotaging have been a long problem that might not be solved over decades. According to Love and Walker (2012), violence may likewise be identified with patriotism or as an outlet for hidden social pressures. Not only many fans sabotage due to the loss of their favorite team loss, but some also just do violence actions as they follow the lead to some groups like ULTRAS (Cheong & Kim, 2016). Love and Walker (2012), quoted “For example of such fans violence, in 1994, Vancouver cancuks fans rioted in the streets after their team lost in the Stanley Cup finals” (p. 457). As Cheong and Kim (2016) mentioned, the rioting of fans and supporters doesn’t only harm themselves, but it mainly harm the community in many ways; for example, the club is harmed by paying some large amount of money due to any destroyed chairs and stuff, the players may be physically harmed due to some thrown bottles or even stones and lastly and county is mainly harmed cause sports fans influence the country culture. Moreover, death between fans due to different clubs that they are following is popular. This idea is a short-term issue which can be easily figured out. First of all the onsite fans riot and violence is not in all humans and it is confined in groups like ULTRAS, so it can be easily controlled by some awareness sessions about self-controlling and accepting the defeat for example. Also, this issue is such short-term problem as it not last like 2 days as they cool down and forget about; for example, their team losing an important match in the finals.
The presence of fans and supporters in such important games; like, in football the final game of a world cup competition is dealing much harm to players than support ,as it deals much pressure to players in the field so they are worried of failing their fans and lose the game (Love & Walker, 2012). According to Cheong and Kim (2016), many Olympic players are worried too much by the occurrence of onsite fans, as the players are representing their country and they have fears more than support by this presence and they hope they never fail their country in such important games. Some countries are banning onsite fans due to many riot and sabotage, but not in all matches, as there are some matches that are in some global competition and the rules are confirmed by these competition so, the onsite fans can attend such big games, due to this issue many team players are not qualified enough to handle such presence of huge number of onsite fans and hope they are home, because they are afraid to handle such responsibility and that’s is common in many countries that have past experience of fans riot and violence (Love & Walker, 2012). However, this situation is handled easily by some training self-confidence sessions that many newbie players go through. Some players must be and are professional enough to handle such pressure and turn the negative energy to positive and turn fear to support. According to Merkel (2012), many professional players doesn’t bear in mind the huge amount of onsite fans, but they only care for the win and focus only in the game.
One of the absolutely terrible issue is the highly cost security procedures in some big games like final cup and Olympics. Not only it let the players feel like they are targeted and might get harmed by all the onsite audience, but also big matches like this many public and governmental figures attend it, so there must be some top and professional security that must be at that stadium which at the end cost much for the hosting club or country (Cheong & Kim, 2016). Moreover, some terrorist organization take advantage of these advocated areas and make some terror action like the one happened in France that lead to 84 death, because there was a friendly international football game that was highly occupied with onsite audience. However, many countries have taken some serious action about such huge number of people in such stadium and people nowadays got idea of how much they are affecting the peace of countries, so people are trying their best to not let anyone to take advantage of their attendance to do harmful actions (Love & Walker, 2012). Also, many sports fans are civilized enough to handle their issues, so they are no damage done to any structure to the stadium and reduce the price of security procedures. Furthermore, many supporters know that if they damage anything their team will be the most harmed element here.
The existence of onsite audience has been always a positive factor for players to perform better and have more inspiration in the field of the game. Former and Lemely (2014), quoted “Brazil as of late facilitated the Confederations Cup in readiness for them facilitating the 2014 World Cup one year from now. Brazil met Spain in the last a week ago
